fix(cloudflare): discover server-side dependencies in .astro frontmatter (#15452)
withastro/astro: .changeset/discover-ssr-deps.md

---
'@astrojs/cloudflare': patch
---

> Fixes server-side dependencies not being discovered ahead of time during dev. Previously, imports in `.astro` file frontmatter were not scanned by Vite's dependency optimizer, causing a "new dependencies optimized" message and page reload when the dependency was first encountered. This adds an esbuild plugin that extracts frontmatter from `.astro` files during the optimization scan phase.

Reviewer: I don't think the esbuild details are useful to users
```suggestion
Fixes server-side dependencies not being discovered ahead of time during development

Previously, imports in `.astro` file frontmatter were not scanned by Vite's dependency optimizer, causing a "new dependencies optimized" message and page reload when the dependency was first encountered. Astro is now able to scan these dependencies ahead of time.
```
